My goal was to operate FlightGear, controlling the simulation’s throttle position with the speed of my bike’s rear wheel, using a Raspberry Pi 5. A second goal, is two make thing simple enough that someone with only basic computer skills could repeat the feat. I am not there yet, but I have start somewhere.
I purchased a Canakit Raspberry Pi 5 from Amazon: “https://www.amazon.com/CanaKit-Raspberry-Starter-Kit-PRO/dp/B0CRSNCJ6Y/ref=sr_1_1?crid=E50QUTI3IJ0V&dib=eyJ2IjoiMSJ9.Yp-_3HVcTHw7QZ8ENnr7e8AXueED-O9udMb5LwHI2UaNJufKjE57DFwNwZ87KMdeGaBG3v5EOjT-ne-K1ffvbfA4RblLhvn-Y5hxnAOw1gM077EvbDAIET5e5hzG4EvIbIqLlrF-FVRe8T6IiQvXJ0iLU59mgiXY6CxtVXBonP5nhJ09uOemHvgRA7FrtiCdMDuoScFsE45ezmgk6uqNJfykV7Y-9fceJM_4ia3bF54.Q3VKhP-QYbpxw1V23jOq-bDk4V2iDjoZCDByqvAoQ2s&dib_tag=se&keywords=raspberry%2Bpi%2B5&qid=1724173963&sprefix=%2Caps%2C96&sr=8-1&th=1”
My rear wheel was already equipped with a Wahoo speed sensor: “https://www.amazon.com/Wahoo-Cycling-Speed-Sensor-Bluetooth/dp/B01DIE7LUG/ref=sr_1_3?crid=22BSYE0DDCLMN&dib=eyJ2IjoiMSJ9.yLk_I74wv6rfZZ3boBy2XQ6ZWsNAOkkohdlcvT6HCgOzqchESwaJOwQqmF3I0DNTOzGPPWmyeD43F7sZ7XF5kWC1u9bJp7B6Lo_quXJnAf5Mq7A94jYoNCTdm9hJnGsi6gQ01X5FjGrhHnnQ5qr1qTGxmScobpMbvhzQ1YPwMdA8b_jIy1kWqE-UfWMH_ZIuyRysuF4gHueziCuUTezWh6T1iw7SQZ4tnEZ02pyEGkMeh8P8yWaSGirP1EER12t5GSYQfATJuygWcTiUKZp6rK3ZaDP6bs1WerGHMOc8_rs.q2WxuRx1gYKLV6Jrpx2JFRUN-jFW4r-2ng9MceMlsCs&dib_tag=se&keywords=wahoo+speed+sensor&qid=1724174069&sprefix=WaHOO+SP%2Caps%2C79&sr=8-3”
The bike is fixed to a trainer stand. I built a standing desk from 8020 extrusions. I adorned the extrusions with part of an old shelf. I use a plastic cover over the keyboard. You can try my scheme without the plastic shield if you are good at not breaking a sweat. Also, I ride in the basement, facing a screen that is the Pi 5’s display next to two fans. One is for my comfort; the second is to blow sweat away from my bike’s bottom bracket. Again, if you don’t sweat you can ignore these features.
I wrote a scriptS that executes a modified version of gatttool (the modified gatttool now requires elevated privileges: i.e sudo) that translate the speed of your bike’s rear wheel into a joystick throttle position.
Gatttool was created by downloading the distribution of blueZ-5.66 – “bluez-5.66.tar.xz” -→”http://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/bluetooth/bluez-5.66.tar.xz” This was expanded. From the directory formed by the expansion of bluez-5.66, I executed the following commands: ./configure –enable-depricated sudo make sudo make install
I the replaced the version of gatttool in the attrib directory. I redid: ./configure –enable-depricated sudo make sudo make install
I then copied the created version of gatttool to usrbin/gatttool using elevated privileges.
In its current for the new version of gatttool when executed with elevated privileges will form a joystick node that will adjust flightgear throttle. My version of gatttool will run until just before sudo exceeds its timeout. 2024 September 7, I attempted a flight from KIIY to KOGB using my modified version gatttool. I modifed the collectDATA script and add a collectDAT script. I initiated my flight with the collectDATA script and continue repetitively with the collectDAT script. When gatttool quits, simply press the up arrow and delete the last ‘A’ if required.
Today, 2024 September 8, I flew from KIIY to 3J7 and verified a good landing with a subsequent take-off.  Include on this github site now is fgtape of the good landing and a compressed archive of the output from my version of gatttool.  I did not use the short script “sixthcollectdat.”

Please help me add omitted details from my explanation.

